Add Database Monitoring monitor docs (#17086)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/monitors/types/database_monitoring.md

---
title: Database Monitoring Monitor
kind: documentation
---

## Overview

Once [Database Monitoring (DBM) is enabled][1] for your organization, you can create a DBM monitor to alert you when a specific DBM event type exceeds a predefined threshold over a given period of time.

## Create a Database Monitoring monitor

To create a DBM monitor in Datadog, first navigate to [**Monitors** > **New Monitor** > **Database Monitoring**][2].

<div class="alert alert-info"><strong>Note</strong>: There is a default limit of 1000 DBM monitors per account. If you are encountering this limit, consider using <a href="/monitors/create/configuration/?tab=thresholdalert#alert-grouping">multi alerts</a>, or <a href="/help/">Contact Support</a>.</div>

### Define the search query

As you expand your search filters, the graph above the search bar updates.

1. Construct a search query using the same logic as a DBM Query Samples.
2. Choose to monitor over a DBM event count or facet.

>     * **Monitor over a DBM event count**: Use the search bar (optional) and do **not** select a facet or measure. Datadog evaluates the number of DBM events over a selected time frame, then compares it to the threshold conditions.

Reviewer: What is a `measure` in this context?

   * **Multi Alert**: Multiple alerts apply the alert to each source according to your group parameters. An alerting event is generated for each group that meets the set conditions. For example, you can group a query by `@db.user` to receive a separate alert for each database user when the number of errors is high.

### Set alert conditions

An alert is triggered whenever a metric crosses a threshold.

* Triggers when the metric is `above`, `above or equal to`, `below`, or `below or equal to`.
* The threshold during the last `5 minutes`, `15 minutes`, `1 hour`, or `custom` to set a value between 5 minutes and 48 hours.
* Alert threshold `<NUMBER>`.
* Warning threshold `<NUMBER>`.

#### No data and below alerts

To receive a notification when an application has stopped sending DBM events, set the condition to `below 1`. This notifies when no DBM events match the monitor query in a given time frame across all aggregate groups.

> When splitting the monitor by any dimension (tag or facet) and using a `below` condition, the alert is triggered **if and only if** there are DBM events for a given group, and the count is below the threshold—or if there are no DBM events for **all** of the groups.

Reviewer: Let's discuss lines 23-43 in person today. I'm finding them to be difficult to follow

---
title: Database Monitoring Monitor
kind: documentation
---

## Overview

Once [Database Monitoring (DBM)][1] is enabled for your organization, you can create a monitor to alert you when a DBM event type deviates from a predefined threshold over a given period of time.

Some examples of these event types include when a set of queries are waiting on the resolution of a blocking query to run or when a certain amount of active query executions exceed a given duration threshold.

## Monitor creation

To create a new DBM monitor in Datadog, navigate to [**Monitors** > **New Monitor** > **Database Monitoring**][2] in the UI.

<div class="alert alert-info"><strong>Note</strong>: There is a default limit of 1000 DBM monitors per account. If you are encountering this limit, consider using simple alerts (referenced in the "Creating monitors from scratch" section below) or <a href="/help/">Contact Support</a> to lift this limit for your account.</div>

## Define the search query

> For both of the below cases your query changes, note that as you expand your search filters, the chart above the search bar updates.

Reviewer: I changed this to:
`Note: As your query changes, the chart above the search bar updates in response.`

### Creating monitors from scratch

1. Determine whether you want to monitor **Query Samples** or **Explain Plans** and select the corresponding option from the dropdown menu pictured below:

{{< img src="database_monitoring/dbm_event_monitor/dbm_event_monitor_data_types.png" alt="A dropdown menu showing the different data sources - Query Samples and Explain Plans - that we pull from for this monitor type" style="width:100%;" >}}

2. Construct a search query using the same logic as in the <a href="https://docs.datadoghq.com/database_monitoring/query_samples/">DBM Query Samples</a> activity and explain plan explorer. This means that you will need to select one or more **facets** to include in the search bar. For example, if you wanted to alert on the waiting queries executed by user `postgresadmin`, then your search bar would look like this:

{{< img src="database_monitoring/dbm_event_monitor/dbm_example_query_no_group_by.png" alt="An example search query containing two facets in the search bar: @db.is_waiting=true AND @db.user:postgresadmin" style="width:100%;" >}}

Note that the monitor you configure will alert over the **unique value count** of the facet(s).

> 3. You also have the option to group DBM events by multiple dimensions. All DBM events matching the query are grouped together based on the value of up to **five facets**. With the group by functionality, you have the ability to configure the **alerting grouping strategy** as well (under "Notify your team" in the Datadog UI):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. You also have the option to group DBM events by multiple dimensions. All DBM events matching the query are grouped together based on the values of up to **five facets**. With the group by functionality, you also have the ability to configure the **alerting grouping strategy**:
```
